# easyAmber

EasyAmber is a set of wrapper scripts to automate the molecular dynamics routines implemented in the Amber package. The toolbox can address a wide set of tasks in computational biology struggling to account for protein flexibility, and supports the full-atom model building, optimization/equilibration of the molecular system, classical/conventional and accelerated molecular dynamics simulations. The easyAmber software takes the molecular dynamics to the next level in terms of usability for complex processing of large volumes of data. It implements advanced MD protocols, but is highly automated and easy-to-operate to attract a broad audience. The toolbox can be used on a personal desktop station equipped with a gaming GPU-accelerator, as well as help to manage huge workloads on a powerful supercomputer.

The molecular dynamics is a very complex approach, and the general-purpose protocols implemented in our toolbox may require further customization to fit the particular research objective. We believe that any potential obstacles will be compensated by the overall simplicity of the use of the new software, thus promoting the value of molecular modeling among general biologists. We expect the easyAmber will contribute to a wide-spread implementation of the molecular dynamics at a daily laboratory routine, supporting a recent trend away from inefficient "static" approaches in protein sciences towards a deeper understanding of the dynamics in protein structures.

Tutorial and step-by-step practical guide: Suplatov D., Sharapova Y., Švedas V. (2020) easyAmber: a comprehensive toolbox to automate the molecular dynamics simulation of proteins, J Bioinform Comput Biol., 18(6), 2040011 DOI: https://www.worldscientific.com/doi/10.1142/S0219720020400119

Supplementary tutorial: see the easyAmber_tutorial.pdf file
